Data/README.md, before:

## DATA DETAILS

### Original Data

The original data used for this replication project can be found in this directory as **'twitter-hate-speech-classifier-data.csv'**

URL: https://github.com/abolim/Reproducibility-Research-Replication/tree/master/Data

The link to the exact data used in the research is mentioned in the GitHub page by the authors.
The data itself is hosted in another GitHub repository called hatespeech-twitter managed by ENCASE (The organization for the ENCASE (ENhancing seCurity and privAcy in the Social wEb) Horizon 2020 European Research Programme). 
Following is the link to the author's repository hosting the data: https://github.com/ENCASEH2020/hatespeech-twitter

The raw data is available in csv format in a file titled hatespeech_labels.csv. This file contains Tweet IDs of approximately 100k tweets used in training and testing of the machine learning models. The IDs should be sufficient to extract all the data that we need to reproduce the research work.
 
Additionally, the owners of the data are open to sharing the full extracted data file upon request via email to a.m.founta@gmail.com

Commit message:

Added information about file size and data specs

Data/README.md, after:

## DATA DETAILS

### Original Data

The original data used for this replication project can be found in the Data directory in a file titles **'twitter-hate-speech-classifier-data.csv'**. This csv file contains 14,509 unique tweets (1 tweet per row) and 20 attributes. The size of this file is 2.73 MB.

URL: https://github.com/abolim/Reproducibility-Research-Replication/tree/master/Data

The link to the exact data used in the research is mentioned in the GitHub page by the authors.
The data itself is hosted in another GitHub repository called hatespeech-twitter managed by ENCASE (The organization for the ENCASE (ENhancing seCurity and privAcy in the Social wEb) Horizon 2020 European Research Programme). 
Following is the link to the author's repository hosting the data: https://github.com/ENCASEH2020/hatespeech-twitter

The raw data is available in csv format in a file titled hatespeech_labels.csv. This file contains Tweet IDs of approximately 100k tweets used in training and testing of the machine learning models. The IDs should be sufficient to extract all the data that we need to reproduce the research work.
 
Additionally, the owners of the data are open to sharing the full extracted data file upon request via email to a.m.founta@gmail.com
